All right.
In the last section, we have completed the body section of the home page.
In this section, we're going to create the footer part of the project.
If you look at the final version and we go to home page, we see that we have a footer here.
Which is divided with three parts.
Here at the top, we see the.
If you zoom it, we see we have a country detection here.
We are going to use an API to get the IP of the.
User and show the country that they live in.
Then we have to a menu at the bottom.
So the one menu at the left.
On the left and 1 million menu on the right side.
And also in the mobile screen, they are on top of each other.
But in the larger screen, they are next to each other.
So let's create this one.
And the other things I want to mention again is this footer is common in other pages as well.
For example, if you go to the search page.
We should see the future here.
Always at the bottom button of the page.
So we're going to use absolute position in absolute for the footer to keep it always at the.
But, uh.
Bottom of the page.
So let's create this.
Footer.
Let's go back to Visual City Code.
So we're going to create a component.
And also we want to add it to the layouts because we want to keep this footer in both sides.
So we want to have this footer inside this page such A6.
And also if we in the future, if we make any other pages, we want to have the footer there as well.
So we want to create that one inside the layout, A6 layout that A6 is just the React functional component,
which gets the children, which is this page that JSX or any other pages that we create in the future
under this.
It has just an HTML tag.
This head tag is not necessary actually, because we have the hit tag here in the next year 13 so we
can delete that hit.
And we have the body section, which includes the children, which is this page such as X.
So what we want to do here is inside this body section, after these children, we want to add our footer
here.
So I'm going to say footer.
And here at the bottom we want to create the footer component, add the footer component here.
So this one should be in an uppercase because it's a component, not a tag.
And let's create this one inside the components file.
So we're going to create another component called Footer Dot.
G6.
And this is going to be a reac functional component.
So let's add this one to the layouts.
We can just use control space here to order imported.
And we just add the alias components for slash footer.
Now, if you look at our website, we should see the footer here.
So let's start creating the future.
And the other things I want to mention is this country IP lookup as it is using use the set and use
effect from React and there are hawks.
React hawks.
We cannot use this component.
Uh, server side.
We need to use it client side.
But I don't want all the footer to be client side.
I just want the this part to be client side.
That's so I'm going to create a separate component for this part for the country and the rest of them
can stay server side.
So we're going to create that one separately.
So we're going to create that footer and we're going to return for let's delete this one.
And here instead of the A diff, I'm going to create a footer tag for SEO purposes.
And here inside this, we're going to have a diff.
And inside this tier, we're going to have that country lookup.
So we're going to create a country.
Look up file here a components.
I'm going to create it now inside the components folder.
That's G6.
And this is going to be a big functional component to.
So let's import it here using contra space.
So we have the country look up for now, but later we're going to create it.
For now we just create the other parts, the menus.
So we're going to have another diff at the bottom of this diff.
And this, Deb, is going to include.
A ul a unordered list which is going to include.
Some list which is going to be for example, about.
The next one.
As you can see, we are getting a suggestion from the now actually the GitHub copilot detected that
we are creating a Google clone based on the previous information.
So this is going to help us to fill up even the form correctly as Google Chrome.
So we have finished with the left side.
And let's create the right side.
I'm going to put another UL and here we have.
Privacy terms.
And finally, we have city, as you can see, if you use.
Yeah, GitHub copilot is going to help you a lot, so I'm going to see all we have.
All these.
Country, the low carb and everything here.
So this they have this similar asylum.
So I'm going to create a custom.
Tilman says.
So inside the Global SAT, CSIS, I'm going to create another custom one, which is going to be a link.
So I'm just say link and this is going to be apply.
I had two things.
First thing first, I want to change the.
Underline, make it underlined when we use it.
And then also we will when we hover over it.
I want to see the and underline.
The other things I want to see is when we.
Hover over it.
I want to see the cursor to be pointed.
So now we can add this link here.
So let's go back to Footer six and I'm going to add all all of them using a dual cursor.
But let's do it again.
And for all of them, I just use the alt and click to have a dual cursor.
Now we have class name and we can just add that link that we have created.
So now when we hover over them, we should see an underline.
And we see a cursor is pointer when we hover over the elements.
So let's continue styling this.
The other styling is one I want to use for these two unordered lists.
I want to change the display to be flex.
Be to bring them next to each other.
And also I want to use items center to bring them to the aligned with each other vertically.
And also we want to use space x six to have some space between them.
So now.
They are next to each other, each menu.
And also they have a.
Proper spacing between them.
The next thing we want to do is to in the top div.
We also want to change the flag display to flex for the.
Mobile size.
We want to have them on top of each other, so we change the display to column.
But in the after the mobile size, I want them to be next to each other.
So we change the flex to two row in the same size and above, and then we can use justify content between
to add a space between there and we can use item center to bring them.
Uh, in the center.
Vertically.
Vertically in the.
A small size.
Sorry, in the large size.
Horizontally in the small size.
So our time sentence works, but in different in the flex call or flex row.
The other is a small things we want to do is to add a padding in the x axis of eight and padding in
the y axis of three.
We can have a space between them in the y axis.
Of seven.
But in the small size and above, I don't want any space in the y axis.
So let's see what we have done.
So they are actually.
The we use the justify between so we have a space between them and also they are aligned with each.
Each.
Each other.
And.
So everything looks good, but we have to style this one as well at the top.
And also we want to have a background color and also we want to keep this footer at the bottom of the
page.
So next things we want to do is to add some classes to this first thing first in the country, low carb.
I want to have a border at the bottom so we have some border here.
You can see the border.
And also after the border.
We want to have some padding in the x axis of eight and padding in the Y axis of three.
So this is going to look like that.
And now it's time to actually bring them to the bottom.
So in the top footer, we're going to change the position to be absolute.
And we want to bring them to the bottom.
So we just say bottom zero.
This is going to push them at the bottom.
I want the text to be as small, the color of the text to be gray, but the 500.
Let's change the background color.
Again, I want to use the.
If you go to Google.com, for example, you search something, check the footer.
We can just use that color picker to to get this color here.
But let me try again.
Okay, When we click here, we get this color.
I'm going to copy this color and come back here in our website and just put it inside a bracket.
So this is the exactly the same color of Google.com.
And we want the width of this width of it to be full.
Which is the with 100%.
So let's try with.
See now we have this with this color and also at the bottom.
So the other things you need to do in all pages, you need to add a padding at a bottom.
So never anything goes under it.
So as you can see now, for example, in the.
Too much zoom.
The button went under the this so in order to prevent it.
In this pages that you have a lot of content, you can add some putting padding at the bottom so you
can just prevent the items to go under the.
A footer.
So this is the trick that always keeps your footer at the bottom of the page in any circumstances.
All right.
So now that we have finished with the footer, we want to create this font correctly.
We want to really get the
country of the person.
So I'm going to use a website called Extreme.
So let me search for it here.
Extreme.
So let's search here.
You can see it better.
So we just say X train.
So he had at the beginning extreme IP.
Look up.
There is a website called Extreme IP lookup.
They're going to give you this.
Information about your country and also the places you are living.
You can see the IP address, what kind of IP you have, and other useful stuff.
The other things you can do is to.
Use their API.
So if you hear, you can use a free package.
So up to one website and also you can have 10,000 website requests per month for free and also 20 per
minute backend requests.
So here you can just simply choose the free package.
Put your name.
Address and email.
And you just sign up.
There is no need for.
Uh, credit card or anything.
So I'm going to just quickly put my name.
Email called with sand dot com at gmail.com.
We just say the hand you're you need to put your an any address.
Which is to say something.
Country.
I just choose Australia.
When you press on, sign up.
You should get an API key.
So let's.
So we need to wait until they create your account.
And finally, they're going to redirect you to the.
To your place and you can just use their API key to get the country of the person.
I'm going to pause the video when they finish.
I'm going to come back.
All right, So.
Uh, the sign up is completed.
Now, I have my API key here.
And also there are other examples how to use the API key, for example, to get the.
Different information.
I'm going to show you how to get the country easily.
So we're going to just copy the API key and we bring it and put it inside our environmental variable.
So we have it created an environmental variable.
Environmental variable is a file that is going to protect our API keys from people to see it, for example,
inside the GitHub repository.
So you need to go to the root of your project, which is outside.
You need to close all the folders and here you just right click and create a new file and we just call
the file dot E and V dot local.
And here you can just add your API key, which in this case is, for example, IP underlying a PI underlying
key.
And this is going to be equal to the API key that we have copied.
And now we just easily we can add it to our website.
So we go to the country, look up here.
And the other things I want to mention is the reason we are using client side for the country lookup.
One was the use of fact and uses state.
But without using these two.
Also we can also create this in the server side part because we want to get the country of the user,
not the server.
We need to keep create this one client side.
Otherwise the person is always seeing the the server country.
So we need to create this function country client size for this reason as well.
So we need to to add that to use client at a top.
To make this one client side.
And here we need to.
Create.
I want to create a constant a piece of state called country.
And we use uses state to create it.
The I want to make the initial value.
United States.
So if the person for any reason the IPA, the API doesn't work, they can see United States.
And then when the API works, they see their own country.
So now here inside this diff.
So instead of.
Just, uh.
We just say country.
Country.
So now if we check our website, we should see.
United States.
Let me refresh the page.
So use a state is not defined.
So we need to import user state.
You can just use counter space to import user set.
Let's see again.
Okay.
Now we see the United States here.
Now we need to fetch and use that API.
So here at a top I'm going to use the user use effect to fetch the data.
So this is going to fetch data.
From that from this website.
So I'm going to show you how to do it.
HTTP s.
And we can just say extreme IP lookup dot com forward slash JSON and now we need to add our API key
here.
We just say key and this is going to be equal to because this is a variable we are getting from the
environmental variable.
We need to change this one to code, double code to back take.
Not the single code.
It's a back deck.
It's located above the tap key.
And then we create a dollar sign for adding the variable, which is which will be processed.
That envy.
Dot the name that we have added inside this and have here so we can copy this IP API key here and add
it here.
So now we can fetch the data we need to convert this one to a proper format, which is JSON.
So we're going to.
We're going to come get this.
Response.
We converted to JSON and then we want to set this country.
We get the data.
This.
This is going to be data and then we're just going to set the country to be data, that country.
So as you can see, we are getting more and more better suggestion from get out, get copilot and let's
delete this.
Okay.
So let's see what we I think there is some problem here.
This return should be.
So we didn't close this use of packed properly and we're going to add some dependency.
So each time we we refresh the page or go to another page, we're going to call this fetching and set
the country again.
So now let's check our website.
So first is the United States and then it's nothing.
So let's check what we mistakes we have done.
So the API key is coming from IP API underlying key process.
That is correct.
And then you're going to fetch the data from this key and then we have converted this one to a JSON
and then we got the data.
And if we set the country, which is here to data that country.
--.
And let's see what.
Error we get.
We need to catch the error here.
So let me.
Console.log data first.
So instead of set country.
On to console.log data.
So let's see.
What do we get?
So now.
Honestly this.
So let's open the console using F 12
and actually we get an object.
The message is API key not recognize.
So probably we didn't.
Oh, I forgot to restart the server.
Whenever you add something inside it that EMV that local or any environmental variable, you need to
restart the server.
Otherwise you cannot get the results.
So now I'm going to restart the server.
So now we should see different results.
Let's open the console here.
And now we refresh the page.
Okay.
Now this time looks better.
So let's.
Yeah, it looks like the API key not recognized.
So I'm going to check the.
API.
So that is correct.
We put the API key here.
Process that EMV that.
IP API key that was correct to.
So.
So another reason that we don't get because this is a client side, we need to change the environmental
variable.
We need to add something at the beginning, which is next public.
And then we add underline and then we just say IP underline API key.
So we need to change this font here too.
So we just say public.
Next public because this is a client size.
It's a different role for the environmental variables.
Now let's see the console using F 12.
So inside the object.
So let's refresh the page now.
So actually, after changing the environmental variable, we need to resolve the server again.
So, okay, now it looks like we are getting the correct things.
So as you can see here.
Inside the console where we are getting the correct now answer because the API key was correct now.
So we are getting the city, the continent, country and residential, all the things we need like a
address and etc..
Okay, so now we instead of just console logging, we can just here we can just set the.
Country.
To be that data, that country, because here we get the country here.
So let's close this.
So now.
Let's refresh the page.
We should see instead of United States, we should see Vietnam.
Okay.
Now, as you can see all the pages here, it's server side.
But this part is going to render with a delay and shows the country.
So actually, now we can use this footer for other pages as well.
We just need to import this footer component anywhere we like or as we are putting it inside the layouts.
This is going to be common in all pages inside the app directory.
So that was it for creating the footer part.
Let's add this one to GitHub using contour shift G.
So we're going to.
As you can see, the environmental variable is not here, so this is not going to be uploaded to GitHub.
So our API key is protected from people seeing our GitHub repository and then we can just press plus
here and we add the message, which is add footer component.
We can commit and push it.
And let's go to GitHub and we refresh the page here we should see now.
So let's we need we now we see we have six commits here and the last one is at footer components.
Let's review what we have done.
We have added a custom tail and CSS class called link that we have used inside our menu.
Inside the layout gsx.
We have added the footer component here.
And inside we have created a component specifically for country lookup.
So this is a client side component because we want to show the IP of the person in the client side.
We have imported user state and use effect to create some piece of seed and also a lifecycle.
So we have created a piece of state called country.
And the initial value is the United States.
And then we have used the use effect to fetch the data from this API.
With this, as you can see, we just see the environmental variable here.
And we have converted this file to JSON and we set the country to be data that country here.
And we just returned the country.
And we have created another component called Footer, which includes the menu.
And also we have imported that country.
Look up here as a component, a separate component.
So this footer is actually server side, but the country lookup that is inside this is going to be client
side.
So we can just have a separate as client size and server side and they're going to work together seamlessly.
So that was it for creating the footer section of our project.
In the next section we're going to create the two pages that we have, which is this.
If you look at the final version, we have this image page, which is in the search force slash web
sort of web page.
And also we have the image page, which is search for slash image.
So this is going to be a very short section and we're going to learn how to create different pages inside
next.
JS So see you in the next section for creating these two pages.